---
layout:     post
title:      "And so it begins..."
subtitle:   "My theory on maximizing ambitions while still retaining my sanity."
date:       2014-12-20 14:16:00
author:     "Jonathan Stanton"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

<h1>TL;DR</h1>
<p>I'm not good at committing to projects long term and
find it disheartening when I set out to achieve a goal and loose motivation half
way through. Yet I have a very adventurous and persistent personality that
drives me to think big and want more for myself. This is something I think is
not unique to myself and stops a lot of people from doing more with their time.
I have come up with middle ground that I am happy to test. This lead me to
making a blog where I am going to test out my theory. This is in of itself one
of my 'think big' moments.

<p>I have decided that committing to large unbound challenges has in the past
turn into a motivation problem if I wasn't able to execute the way I had
imagined. <strong>My solution isn't to stop thinking big or to take on fewer
challenges but instead to commit to challenges of any size with an end date date
in mind and one that I can measure the success of the challenge.</strong>

<p>Caveat for the skeptics: This is not to say that all things in life should
have an out in mind. There are times in life where doing something without an
expected end date or looking for ways to constantly measure success is a good
thing. And if the challenge in mind doesn't fit this mold it doesn't mean it's
not a worthwhile or meaningful goal. First example that comes to mind, raising
my kids, the measure of success is constantly changing depending on the season
of life my wife and I are in. Some times it's going to be very hard to determine
what success looks like. Some times there may not be a clear one. But this
doesn't mean it's not worthwhile endeavor. Also I have never and will never set
an end date to parenting. Having my two beautiful children and marrying my wife
was a decision I made with no end to sight and I'm happy with that decision.

<blockquote>This mold is designed to be broken.</blockquote>

<hr>

<p>Example: I wanted to cook for my wife more often to give her a break and also
because I thought my "culinary skills" could grow beyond <i>Mac N' Cheese</i>
and <i>hot dogs</i>. Committing once a week for the rest of my life to cook a meal
is noble but what happens when I miss a week? Or my motivation wanes? Building
in a end date means there is end in sight to give me hope and push me to what
could be a breakthrough in something I might actually find enjoyable.

<hr>

<p>This leads me to my <i>one month of</i> challenges. I am going to attempt to
learn or do something different once a month for one year. Each month will have
it's own guidelines that are unique to the challenge. I will post at minimum
&#x2460; what I am attempting to do, &#x2461; how long the it will take (should
be just a month but who knows), &#x2462; how often I plan on doing said
challenge, &#x2463; how I plan on measuring the success and &#x2464; any
guidelines that apply to that month's challenge.

<p>Some examples of things that I could see myself doing are: cooking, art,
music, geography, contributing to open source projects, writing, language
studies, math, computer science etc...

<p>Basically a lot of what I learned as an elementary student that I didn't find
terribly interesting then but now I want to explore more deeply to give myself a
more well rounded view of others and myself.

<hr>

<h1>Challenge #1</h1>
<p>Pick a subject of learning or an area I feel I am weak and dive into it.</p>
<dl>
  <dt>Duration:</dt>
  <dd>1 year.</dd>

  <dt>Frequency:</dt>
  <dd>Once a month.</dd>

  <dt>Measure of Success:</dt>
  <dd>If after a year I have completed at
  least 12 challenges, making at least 1 blog post per month at the beginning of
  the challenge outlining the task and 1 blog post at the end of the challenge
  with a post-mortem and any number of blog posts in the middle with updates. That
  will be a success. Anything less is a failure, but that's something that I can
  live with!</dd>

  <dt>Additional guidelines:</dt>
  <dd>This should be fun. I'd hate to push
  myself for a year and regret doing it. I should also be flexible and open to
  adjusting my premise and rules. If it doesn't look like I can do a month due to
  my circumstances I wont feel guilty for skipping or stopping or if it looks like
  I was wrong and my motivations were more than I've outlined I should be willing
  to re-evaluate.</dd>
</dl>

<p>Well that's about it. If you see any typo's or bad grammar submit a
<a href="https://github.com/onemonthof/onemonthof.github.io/pulls">pull
request</a>, I'll try to link to the markdown file on every post. Or email
<a href="mailto:suggestions@onemonthof.com">suggestions@onemonthof.com</a>.
Thanks for making it this far in my post, hopefully through this I will learn to
be a more engaging and less boring writer!



